README.md, before:

# Gaudi Tutorials

These are the source files for the tutorials on https://developer.habana.ai/.

The tutorials provide step-by-step instructions for PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning on the Intel Gaudi AI Processor, from beginner level to advanced users.

### To run these Jupyter Notebooks you will need to follow these steps:
1. Get access to an Intel Gaudi 2 Accelerator card or node.  See the [Get Access](https://developer.habana.ai/get-access/) page on the Developer Website.  Be sure to use port forwarding `ssh -L 8888:localhost:8888 ... user@ipaddress` to be able to access the notebook. 
2. Run the Intel Gaudi PyTorch Docker image.  Refer to the Docker section of the [Installation Guide](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Installation_Guide/Bare_Metal_Fresh_OS.html#pull-and-launch-docker-image-intel-gaudi-vault) for more information.  Running the docker image will allow you access to the entire software stack.
3. Clone this tutorial in your $HOME directory:  `cd ~ && git clone https://www.github.com/habanaai/Gaudi-tutorials`
4. Install Jupyterlab: `python3 -m pip install jupyterlab`
5. Run the Jupyterlab Server, using the same port mapping as the ssh command:  `python3 -m jupyterlab_server --IdentityProvider.token='' --ServerApp.password='' --allow-root --port 8888 --ServerApp.root_dir=$HOME & `

The tutorials will cover the following domains and tasks:

### Advanced
- Fine Tuning with LORA and Inference on Hugging Face Llama 2 70B model  
- Full RAG application with TGI-gaudi
- RAG application with Local GPT modified to run on Intel Gaudi
- How to setup and use DeepSpeed for Training Large Language Models 

### Intermediate
- GPU migration Tool
- Debug for Dynamic Shapes
- Running Simple Inference examples with HPU Graph
- How to use the Gaudi Tensorboard Plug-in for Profiling
- Running DeepSpeed on PyTorch Lightning with GPT2
- BERT Fine Tuning use PyTorch Lightning

### Getting Started
- Quick Start	Overall review of Model-References, Hugging Face and DeepSpeed
- Inference
- Fine Tuning
- Running Stable Diffusion
- Training a Classifier	Basic PyTorch Tutorial
- Introduction to Lightning	Running simple PyTorch Lightning model, using Gaudi plug-in

Commit message:

Updated Single Card Tutorials for IDC

README.md, after:

# Intel Gaudi Tutorials

These are the source files for the tutorials on https://developer.habana.ai/.

The tutorials provide step-by-step instructions for PyTorch and PyTorch Lightning on the Intel Gaudi AI Processor, from beginner level to advanced users.

## IMPORTANT: To run these Jupyter Notebooks you will need to follow these steps:
1. Get access to an Intel Gaudi 2 Accelerator card or node.  See the [Get Access](https://developer.habana.ai/get-access/) page on the Developer Website.  Be sure to use port forwarding `ssh -L 8888:localhost:8888 ... user@ipaddress` to be able to access the notebook. 
2. Run the Intel Gaudi PyTorch Docker image.  Refer to the Docker section of the [Installation Guide](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Installation_Guide/Bare_Metal_Fresh_OS.html#bare-metal-fresh-os-single-click) for more information.  Running the docker image will allow you access to the entire software stack without having to worry about detailed Software installation Steps.
```
docker run -itd --name Gaudi_Docker --runtime=habana -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all -e OMPI_MCA_btl_vader_single_copy_mechanism=none --cap-add=sys_nice --net=host --ipc=host vault.habana.ai/gaudi-docker/1.16.2/ubuntu22.04/habanalabs/pytorch-installer-2.2.2
docker exec -it Gaudi_Docker bash
```
3. Clone this tutorial in your $HOME directory:  `cd ~ && git clone https://www.github.com/habanaai/Gaudi-tutorials`
4. Install Jupyterlab: `python3 -m pip install jupyterlab`
5. Run the Jupyterlab Server, using the same port mapping as the ssh command:  `python3 -m jupyterlab_server --IdentityProvider.token='' --ServerApp.password='' --allow-root --port 8888 --ServerApp.root_dir=$HOME & ` and take the local URL and run that in your browser

The tutorials will cover the following domains and tasks:

### Advanced
- Fine Tuning with LORA and Inference on Hugging Face Llama 2 70B model  
- Full RAG application with TGI-gaudi
- Getting Started with vLLM
- Getting Started with TGI-Gaudi
- RAG application with LocalGPT modified to run on Intel Gaudi
- How to setup and use DeepSpeed for Training Large Language Models 

### Intermediate
- GPU migration Tool
- Debug for Dynamic Shapes
- Running Simple Inference examples with HPU Graph
- Using Hugging Face Pipelines for Inference
- How to use the Gaudi Tensorboard Plug-in or Perfetto for Profiling
- Transformer Reinforcement Learning with Hugging Face
- Running DeepSpeed on PyTorch Lightning with GPT2
- BERT Fine Tuning use PyTorch Lightning

### Getting Started
- Quick Start: Overall review of Model-References, Hugging Face and DeepSpeed
- Inference
- Fine Tuning
- Running Stable Diffusion
- Training a Classifier	Basic PyTorch Tutorial
- Introduction to Lightning	Running simple PyTorch Lightning model, using Gaudi plug-in
