PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Benchmarking_on_vLLM/Online_Static/README.md, before:

# Static Online Serving Examples
This folder contains scripts and configuration files to enable a user to run automated inference on different models on vLLM in online serving mode.

These scripts are designed to be portable and runnable on any Gaudi machine with minimal pre-requisites. Each folder contains :
- Recipe to build Gaudi container image.
- Recipe for starting vLLM server on Gaudi.
- Perf Test script to run a user-scale request on vLLM server with a report of the results.
- The parameters of the vLLM server are pre-configured in the env files and server_cmd.sh scripts to support a context length (input + output tokens) of upto 2K and 4K tokens.
- To test using a custom input, ensure that the context length does not exceed 2K or 4K tokens, respectively, for the purpose of this tutorial.

## Quick Start
To run these models on your Gaudi machine:
1) Clone this repository.
2) Choose the model directory and cd into it.
3) Edit the docker_envfile.env and enter your HF_TOKEN in the placeholder variable.
4) Run command `sudo bash ./run.sh` which will build the Docker container for the vLLM server and load the particular model you have chosen in Step 2.
5) Wait ~15 minutes or more for the server to start up and warmup. Ignore the
 `pulsecheck   | No successful response. HTTP status code: 000. Retrying in 5 seconds...` messages in the meantime.
6) When server is finally ready for serving, it will say
`Application Startup Complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0.:8000`
7) (Optional) User can run the `bash./perftest.sh` script in a separate terminal to run a quick benchmark to get some metrics like example below:
<pre>
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============

Successful requests:               320
Benchmark duration (s):            58.27
Total input tokens:                1199854
Total generated tokens:            40960
Request throughput (req/s):        5.49
Output token throughput (tok/s):   702.88
Total Token throughput (tok/s):    21292.51

---------------Time to First Token----------------

Mean TTFT (ms):                    2294.10
Median TTFT (ms):                  2282.69
P90 TTFT (ms):                     3772.42

-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------

Mean TPOT (ms):                    27.79
Median TPOT (ms):                  27.72
P90 TPOT (ms):                     39.37

---------------Inter-token Latency----------------

Mean ITL (ms):                     27.77
Median ITL (ms):                   13.21
P90 ITL (ms):                      17.35

==================================================
</pre>

### Important Files

Here is a list of important files in each model directory:

|File name| Description|
|:--------|------------|
|run.sh |Main launcher script|
|docker_envfile.env |File containing environment variables needed for the chosen model |
|Dockerfile-1.20.0-xxxx| Dockerfile used by run.sh to create the docker container |
|perftest.sh |Simple benchmark script for obtaining metrics
|*.csv |File containing inputs for the client script (perftest.sh)|

Commit message:

Update vLLM Containers (#122)
* Fix formula for num_prompts



* Update the perftest command to be usable directly

* Update README.md

Minor wording update.

* Add missing numprompt_mult variable

* Change log file name and update Readme

* Minor cleanups

---------

Co-authored-by: Mohit Deopujari <mdeopujari@habana.ai>

PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Benchmarking_on_vLLM/Online_Static/README.md, after:

# Static Online Serving Examples
This folder contains scripts and configuration files to enable a user to run automated inference on different models on vLLM in online serving mode.

These scripts are designed to be portable and runnable on any Gaudi machine with minimal pre-requisites. Each folder contains:
- Recipe to build Gaudi container image.
- Recipe for starting vLLM server on Gaudi.
- Perf Test script to run a user-scale request on vLLM server with a report of the results.
- The parameters of the vLLM server are pre-configured in the env files and server_cmd.sh scripts to support a context length (input + output tokens) of upto 2K and 4K tokens.
- To test using a custom input, ensure that the context length does not exceed 2K or 4K tokens, respectively, for the purpose of this tutorial.

## Quick Start
To run these models on your Gaudi machine:
1) Clone this repository.
2) Choose any one model example directory and `cd` into it.
3) Edit the `docker_envfile.env` and enter your `HF_TOKEN` in the placeholder variable. Optionally, you can set which cards to use by changing `HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`
4) Run command `bash ./run.sh` which will build the Docker container for the vLLM server and load the particular model you have chosen in Step 2.
5) Wait **~15 minutes** or more for the server to start and warmup. Ignore the
 `pulsecheck   | No successful response. HTTP status code: 000. Retrying in 5 seconds...` messages in the meantime.
6) When server is finally ready for serving, it will say
`Application Startup Complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://0.0.0.0.:8000`
7) (Optional) User can run the `docker exec vllm-server /workdir/perftest.sh` command in a **separate terminal** to run a quick benchmark script for obtaining basic metrics like the example below:
<pre>
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============

Successful requests:               320
Benchmark duration (s):            58.27
Total input tokens:                1199854
Total generated tokens:            40960
Request throughput (req/s):        5.49
Output token throughput (tok/s):   702.88
Total Token throughput (tok/s):    21292.51

---------------Time to First Token----------------

Mean TTFT (ms):                    2294.10
Median TTFT (ms):                  2282.69
P90 TTFT (ms):                     3772.42

-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------

Mean TPOT (ms):                    27.79
Median TPOT (ms):                  27.72
P90 TPOT (ms):                     39.37

---------------Inter-token Latency----------------

Mean ITL (ms):                     27.77
Median ITL (ms):                   13.21
P90 ITL (ms):                      17.35

==================================================
</pre>

### Important Files

Here is a list of important files in each model directory:

|File name| Description|
|:--------|------------|
|run.sh |Main launcher script|
|docker_envfile.env |File containing environment variables needed for the chosen model |
|Dockerfile-1.20.0-xxxx| Dockerfile used by run.sh to create the docker container |
|perftest.sh |Simple benchmark script for obtaining metrics |
|*.csv |File containing inputs for the client script (perftest.sh)|
