PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Deploying_vLLM/README.md, before:

# VLLM container with multi-model support
This folder contains scripts and configuration files that can be used to build a vLLM container with support for the following models:

# Supported Models:
|Model Name | Recommended TP Size |
|--|--|
|deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B |4|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct |4|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct |8|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct |4|
|mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 |1|
|mistralai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1 |4|
|mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 |2|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct |1|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct |1|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct |4|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct |4|
## Quick Start
To run these models on your Gaudi machine:

1) First, obtain the Dockerfile and benchmark scripts from the Gaudi-tutorials repository using the command below
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HabanaAI/Gaudi-tutorials
cd Gaudi-tutorials/PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Deploying_vLLM
```

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **All build and run steps listed in this document need to be executed on Gaudi Hardware**
>    

2) Depending on the base OS you are running, select the appropriate Dockerfile. The examples in this page are for Ubuntu 24.04
 - Ubuntu 22.04: Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub22-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi
 - Ubuntu 24.04: Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub24-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi

3) To build the `vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi` image from the Dockerfile, use the command below.
```bash
## Set the next line if you are using a HTTP proxy on your build machine
BUILD_ARGS="--build-arg http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy --build-arg no_proxy"
docker build -f Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub24-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi $BUILD_ARGS -t vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16 .
```

4) Set the following variables with appropriate values
 -  -e MODEL= (choose from table above)
 -  -e HF_TOKEN= (Generate a token from https://huggingface.co)

> Note: 
> The Huggingface model file size might be large. Using an external disk to house the Huggingface hub folder is recommended.
> Export the HF_HOME environment variable pointing to the external disk housing the Huggingface hub folder.
> You can do this by adding parameters to the docker run command.  
> Example: "-e HF_HOME=/mnt/huggingface -v /mnt/huggingface:/mnt"

5) Start the vLLM server with a default context (4k for text and 8k for vision models) and default TP as per the table above
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
> [!NOTE]
> The default DTYPE is set as **bfloat16**.
>

6) (Optional) check your vLLM server by running this command in a **separate terminal**
```bash
MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
target=localhost
curl_query="What is DeepLearning?"
payload="{ \"model\": \"${MODEL}\", \"prompt\": \"${curl_query}\", \"max_tokens\": 128, \"temperature\": 0 }"
curl -s --noproxy '*' http://${target}:8000/v1/completions -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d "$payload"
```

7) Expect to see an output similar to this:
<code>
{"id":"cmpl-694ba4a409444b2a8e2348657a073721","object":"text_completion","created":1747731763,"model":"meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct","choices":[{"index":0,"text":" Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that uses artificial neural networks to analyze data. It is a type of machine learning that is inspired by the structure and function of the human brain. Deep learning algorithms are designed to learn and improve on their own by analyzing large amounts of data, and they can be used for a wide range of tasks, including image and speech recognition, natural language processing, and predictive modeling.\nDeep learning is a type of machine learning that is particularly well-suited to tasks that involve complex patterns and relationships in data. It is often used in applications such as:\nImage and speech recognition: Deep learning algorithms can be used to","logprobs":null,"finish_reason":"length","stop_reason":null,"prompt_logprobs":null}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":6,"total_tokens":134,"completion_tokens":128,"prompt_tokens_details":null}}
</code>
&nbsp; 

8.1) (Optional: For text based models) Run the perftest.sh command in a **separate terminal** for obtaining basic metrics like the example below for Gaudi3:  
```bash
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh
```
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     640
Benchmark duration (s):                  359.63
Total input tokens:                      1195639
Total generated tokens:                  1310720
Request throughput (req/s):              1.78
Output token throughput (tok/s):         3644.60
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          6969.21
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          1802.70
Median TTFT (ms):                        1807.23
P90 TTFT (ms):                           3186.42
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          16.68
Median TPOT (ms):                        16.68
P90 TPOT (ms):                           17.35
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           16.68
Median ITL (ms):                         15.38
P90 ITL (ms):                            18.49
==================================================
</pre>
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     640
Benchmark duration (s):                  1514.01
Total input tokens:                      1195639
Total generated tokens:                  1310720
Request throughput (req/s):              0.42
Output token throughput (tok/s):         865.73
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          1655.44
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          15474.97
Median TTFT (ms):                        15500.01
P90 TTFT (ms):                           27013.06
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          66.39
Median TPOT (ms):                        66.38
P90 TPOT (ms):                           71.97
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           66.39
Median ITL (ms):                         60.01
P90 ITL (ms):                            61.32
==================================================
</pre>

> Note:  
> The perftest.sh script runs with the following defaults:
>   INPUT_TOKENS=2048  
>   OUTPUT_TOKENS=2048  
>   CONCURRENT_REQUESTS=64  

8.2) (Optional: For vision models) Run the perftest_vision.sh command in a **separate terminal** for obtaining basic metrics like the example below for Gaudi3:  
```bash
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest_vision.sh
```
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     500       
Benchmark duration (s):                  121.53    
Total input tokens:                      31710     
Total generated tokens:                  64000     
Request throughput (req/s):              4.11      
Output token throughput (tok/s):         526.63    
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          787.56    
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          5642.06   
Median TTFT (ms):                        5589.81   
P90 TTFT (ms):                           8825.33   
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          74.14     
Median TPOT (ms):                        72.15     
P90 TPOT (ms):                           101.27    
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           73.56     
Median ITL (ms):                         34.46     
P90 ITL (ms):                            88.77     
==================================================
</pre>

9) Optionally, you can run perftest.sh with custom parameters like so:
```bash
## Usage: docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh <INPUT_TOKENS> <OUTPUT_TOKENS> <CONCURRENT_REQUESTS>
## Examples:
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh 1024 3192
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh 1024 3192 100
``` 
&nbsp;

# Running vLLM server with custom parameters
1) The following variables come with defaults but can be overridden with appropriate values
 -  -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE (Optional, number of cards to use. If not set, a default will be chosen)
 -  -e MAX_MODEL_LEN (Optional, set a length that suits your workload. If not set, a default will be chosen)
 -  -e DTYPE (Optional, you can set it to "fp8" or "bfloat16" depending upon your choice. If not set, "bfloat16" will be choosen by default)

2.1) Example for bringing up a vLLM server with a custom max model length, tensor parallel (TP) size and **DTYPE=bfloat16**. Proxy variables and volumes added for reference.
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=8 \
    -e DTYPE=bfloat16 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
2.2) Example for bringing up a vLLM server with a custom max model length, tensor parallel (TP) size and **DTYPE=fp8**.
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=8 \
    -e DTYPE=fp8 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```

3) Example for bringing up two Llama-70B instances with the recommended number of TP/cards. Each instance should have unique values for HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES, host port and instance name.
For information on how to set HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES for a specific TP size, see [docs.habana.ai - Multiple Tenants](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Orchestration/Multiple_Tenants_on_HPU/Multiple_Dockers_each_with_Single_Workload.html)
```
CNAME=vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
HOST_PORT1=8000
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 \
    -p $HOST_PORT1:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=4 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server1 \
    ${CNAME}
```

```
## Run in Separate terminal
CNAME=vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
HOST_PORT2=9222
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 \
    -p $HOST_PORT2:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=4 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server2 \
    ${CNAME}
```
4) To view vllm-server logs, run this in a separate terminal:
```bash
docker logs -f vllm-server
```

# Using recipe cache to reduce warmup time(Docker Copy Method)

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **Docker copy method, allows saved recipe cache to be on any file system.**
> **User can provide DTYPE in server command for good practice. It is left as user discretion**
>  

1) For each model length, the recipe cache needs to be generated separately. To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 2k(small context),use this command:
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G3_$DTYPE
## First run to create small context recipes
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=2304 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```

2) Copy recipe to host after warmup is complete
```
## Copy recipe from container to host (run in different shell)
docker cp vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache ./
docker stop vllm-server
```

3) To generate recpie for a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 32k(long context), use this command:
```
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=32512 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Copy recipes to container
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

docker start -a vllm-server
```

4) Copy recipe to host after warmup is complete
```
## Copy recipe from container (run in different shell)
docker cp vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache ./
docker stop vllm-server
```

5) Run any context within the range of context in previous step with recipe cache for fast warmup
```
## For example start a 20K context server with recipe cache for fast warmup
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Copy recipes to container
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

docker start -a vllm-server
```

# Using recipe cache to reduce warmp time(Docker Volume Method)

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **Docker volume method, saved recipe cache should be on host file system and not NFS.**
> **It is recommended to create a folder on the local disk (not NFS) to store the warm-up recpie cache**
>

1) For each model length, the recipe cache needs to be generated separately. To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 2k(small context), use this command:
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G3_$DTYPE
mkdir -p recipe_cache
## First run to create small context recipes
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=2304 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Stop/Interrupt the running container after warmup
```
2) To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 32k(long context), use this command:
```
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=32512 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Stop/Interrupt the running container after warmup
```
3)  Run any context within the range of context in previous step with recipe cache for fast warmup
```
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
# To futher speed up cache loading, use Shared Memory(RAMDISK) to store the cache.
1)  
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G2_$DTYPE
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v /dev/shm:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --entrypoint "/bin/bash" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## On Host run this command
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

## Connect to the container and start vllm-server
docker exec -it vllm-server bash
./entrypoint.sh

## It should now start with the warmup cache
```

Commit message:

Update README with FP8 measurement notes

PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Deploying_vLLM/README.md, after:

# VLLM container with multi-model support
This folder contains scripts and configuration files that can be used to build a vLLM container with support for the following models:

# Supported Models:
|Model Name | Recommended TP Size |
|--|--|
|deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Llama-70B |4|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct |4|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct |8|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-1B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct |4|
|mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 |1|
|mistralai/Mixtral-8x22B-Instruct-v0.1 |4|
|mistralai/Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1 |2|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct |1|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct |1|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct |4|
|Qwen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct |1|
|meta-llama/Llama-3.2-90B-Vision-Instruct |4|
## Quick Start
To run these models on your Gaudi machine:

1) First, obtain the Dockerfile and benchmark scripts from the Gaudi-tutorials repository using the command below
```bash
git clone https://github.com/HabanaAI/Gaudi-tutorials
cd Gaudi-tutorials/PyTorch/vLLM_Tutorials/Deploying_vLLM
```

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **All build and run steps listed in this document need to be executed on Gaudi Hardware**
>    

2) Depending on the base OS you are running, select the appropriate Dockerfile. The examples in this page are for Ubuntu 24.04
 - Ubuntu 22.04: Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub22-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi
 - Ubuntu 24.04: Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub24-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi

3) To build the `vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi` image from the Dockerfile, use the command below.
```bash
## Set the next line if you are using a HTTP proxy on your build machine
BUILD_ARGS="--build-arg http_proxy --build-arg https_proxy --build-arg no_proxy"
docker build -f Dockerfile-1.21.1-ub24-vllm-v0.7.2+Gaudi $BUILD_ARGS -t vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16 .
```

4) Set the following variables with appropriate values
 -  -e MODEL= (choose from table above)
 -  -e HF_TOKEN= (Generate a token from https://huggingface.co)

> Note: 
> The Huggingface model file size might be large. Using an external disk to house the Huggingface hub folder is recommended.
> Export the HF_HOME environment variable pointing to the external disk housing the Huggingface hub folder.
> You can do this by adding parameters to the docker run command.  
> Example: "-e HF_HOME=/mnt/huggingface -v /mnt/huggingface:/mnt"

5) Start the vLLM server with a default context (4k for text and 8k for vision models) and default TP as per the table above
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
> [!NOTE]
> The default DTYPE is set as **bfloat16**.
>

6) (Optional) check your vLLM server by running this command in a **separate terminal**
```bash
MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
target=localhost
curl_query="What is DeepLearning?"
payload="{ \"model\": \"${MODEL}\", \"prompt\": \"${curl_query}\", \"max_tokens\": 128, \"temperature\": 0 }"
curl -s --noproxy '*' http://${target}:8000/v1/completions -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d "$payload"
```

7) Expect to see an output similar to this:
<code>
{"id":"cmpl-694ba4a409444b2a8e2348657a073721","object":"text_completion","created":1747731763,"model":"meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct","choices":[{"index":0,"text":" Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that uses artificial neural networks to analyze data. It is a type of machine learning that is inspired by the structure and function of the human brain. Deep learning algorithms are designed to learn and improve on their own by analyzing large amounts of data, and they can be used for a wide range of tasks, including image and speech recognition, natural language processing, and predictive modeling.\nDeep learning is a type of machine learning that is particularly well-suited to tasks that involve complex patterns and relationships in data. It is often used in applications such as:\nImage and speech recognition: Deep learning algorithms can be used to","logprobs":null,"finish_reason":"length","stop_reason":null,"prompt_logprobs":null}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":6,"total_tokens":134,"completion_tokens":128,"prompt_tokens_details":null}}
</code>
&nbsp; 

8.1) (Optional: For text based models) Run the perftest.sh command in a **separate terminal** for obtaining basic metrics like the example below for Gaudi3:  
```bash
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh
```
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     640
Benchmark duration (s):                  359.63
Total input tokens:                      1195639
Total generated tokens:                  1310720
Request throughput (req/s):              1.78
Output token throughput (tok/s):         3644.60
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          6969.21
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          1802.70
Median TTFT (ms):                        1807.23
P90 TTFT (ms):                           3186.42
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          16.68
Median TPOT (ms):                        16.68
P90 TPOT (ms):                           17.35
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           16.68
Median ITL (ms):                         15.38
P90 ITL (ms):                            18.49
==================================================
</pre>
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.1-405B-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     640
Benchmark duration (s):                  1514.01
Total input tokens:                      1195639
Total generated tokens:                  1310720
Request throughput (req/s):              0.42
Output token throughput (tok/s):         865.73
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          1655.44
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          15474.97
Median TTFT (ms):                        15500.01
P90 TTFT (ms):                           27013.06
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          66.39
Median TPOT (ms):                        66.38
P90 TPOT (ms):                           71.97
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           66.39
Median ITL (ms):                         60.01
P90 ITL (ms):                            61.32
==================================================
</pre>

> Note:  
> The perftest.sh script runs with the following defaults:
>   INPUT_TOKENS=2048  
>   OUTPUT_TOKENS=2048  
>   CONCURRENT_REQUESTS=64  

8.2) (Optional: For vision models) Run the perftest_vision.sh command in a **separate terminal** for obtaining basic metrics like the example below for Gaudi3:  
```bash
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest_vision.sh
```
<pre>
# meta-llama/Llama-3.2-11B-Vision-Instruct
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                     500       
Benchmark duration (s):                  121.53    
Total input tokens:                      31710     
Total generated tokens:                  64000     
Request throughput (req/s):              4.11      
Output token throughput (tok/s):         526.63    
Total Token throughput (tok/s):          787.56    
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                          5642.06   
Median TTFT (ms):                        5589.81   
P90 TTFT (ms):                           8825.33   
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                          74.14     
Median TPOT (ms):                        72.15     
P90 TPOT (ms):                           101.27    
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                           73.56     
Median ITL (ms):                         34.46     
P90 ITL (ms):                            88.77     
==================================================
</pre>

9) Optionally, you can run perftest.sh with custom parameters like so:
```bash
## Usage: docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh <INPUT_TOKENS> <OUTPUT_TOKENS> <CONCURRENT_REQUESTS>
## Examples:
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh 1024 3192
docker exec vllm-server /root/scripts/perftest.sh 1024 3192 100
``` 
&nbsp;

# Running vLLM server with custom parameters
1) The following variables come with defaults but can be overridden with appropriate values
 -  -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE (Optional, number of cards to use. If not set, a default will be chosen)
 -  -e MAX_MODEL_LEN (Optional, set a length that suits your workload. If not set, a default will be chosen)
 -  -e DTYPE (Optional, you can set it to "fp8" or "bfloat16" depending upon your choice. If not set, "bfloat16" will be choosen by default)

2.1) Example for bringing up a vLLM server with a custom max model length, tensor parallel (TP) size and **DTYPE=bfloat16**. Proxy variables and volumes added for reference.
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=8 \
    -e DTYPE=bfloat16 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
2.2) Example for bringing up a vLLM server with a custom max model length, tensor parallel (TP) size and **DTYPE=fp8**.
```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=8 \
    -e DTYPE=fp8 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
- FP8 inference requires model statistics measurements see [docs.habana.ai - Run Inference using FP8](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/PyTorch/Inference_on_PyTorch/Quantization/Inference_Using_FP8.html). In the above example model measurement files are automatically generated and stored inside the container at /root/scripts/measurement.
- Persistent measurement folder can also be provided, for example by adding docker volume using command line option **-v ./measurement:/root/scripts/measurement** to the above example, then statistics measurement will be skipped if measurement file already exists.

3) Example for bringing up two Llama-70B instances with the recommended number of TP/cards. Each instance should have unique values for HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES, host port and instance name.
For information on how to set HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES for a specific TP size, see [docs.habana.ai - Multiple Tenants](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Orchestration/Multiple_Tenants_on_HPU/Multiple_Dockers_each_with_Single_Workload.html)
```
CNAME=vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
HOST_PORT1=8000
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 \
    -p $HOST_PORT1:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=4 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server1 \
    ${CNAME}
```

```
## Run in Separate terminal
CNAME=vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
HOST_PORT2=9222
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 \
    -p $HOST_PORT2:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct \
    -e TENSOR_PARALLEL_SIZE=4 \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=8192 \
    --name vllm-server2 \
    ${CNAME}
```
4) To view vllm-server logs, run this in a separate terminal:
```bash
docker logs -f vllm-server
```

# Using recipe cache to reduce warmup time(Docker Copy Method)

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **Docker copy method, allows saved recipe cache to be on any file system.**
> **User can provide DTYPE in server command for good practice. It is left as user discretion**
>  

1) For each model length, the recipe cache needs to be generated separately. To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 2k(small context),use this command:
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G3_$DTYPE
## First run to create small context recipes
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=2304 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```

2) Copy recipe to host after warmup is complete
```
## Copy recipe from container to host (run in different shell)
docker cp vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache ./
docker stop vllm-server
```

3) To generate recpie for a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 32k(long context), use this command:
```
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=32512 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Copy recipes to container
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

docker start -a vllm-server
```

4) Copy recipe to host after warmup is complete
```
## Copy recipe from container (run in different shell)
docker cp vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache ./
docker stop vllm-server
```

5) Run any context within the range of context in previous step with recipe cache for fast warmup
```
## For example start a 20K context server with recipe cache for fast warmup
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Copy recipes to container
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

docker start -a vllm-server
```

# Using recipe cache to reduce warmp time(Docker Volume Method)

> **IMPORTANT**
>     
> **Docker volume method, saved recipe cache should be on host file system and not NFS.**
> **It is recommended to create a folder on the local disk (not NFS) to store the warm-up recpie cache**
>

1) For each model length, the recipe cache needs to be generated separately. To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 2k(small context), use this command:
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G3_$DTYPE
mkdir -p recipe_cache
## First run to create small context recipes
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=2304 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Stop/Interrupt the running container after warmup
```
2) To generate recpie for a a MAX_MODEL_LEN of 32k(long context), use this command:
```
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=32512 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## Stop/Interrupt the running container after warmup
```
3)  Run any context within the range of context in previous step with recipe cache for fast warmup
```
docker run -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v ./recipe_cache:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16
```
# To futher speed up cache loading, use Shared Memory(RAMDISK) to store the cache.
1)  
```
MODEL_CACHE_DIR=Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct_TP1_G2_$DTYPE
docker create -it --rm \
    -e http_proxy=$http_proxy -e https_proxy=$https_proxy -e no_proxy=$no_proxy \
    -e HF_HOME=/mnt/hf_cache \
    -v /mnt/hf_cache:/mnt/hf_cache \
    --cap-add=sys_nice \
    --ipc=host \
    --runtime=habana \
    -e HF_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE \
    -e HABANA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=all \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -e MODEL=meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct \
    -e MAX_MODEL_LEN=20480 \
    -e PT_HPU_RECIPE_CACHE_CONFIG="./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR,False,2048" \
    -v /dev/shm:/root/scripts/recipe_cache \
    --entrypoint "/bin/bash" \
    --name vllm-server \
    vllm-v0.7.2-gaudi-ub24:1.21.1-16

## On Host run this command
docker cp ./recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR vllm-server:/root/scripts/recipe_cache/$MODEL_CACHE_DIR

## Connect to the container and start vllm-server
docker exec -it vllm-server bash
./entrypoint.sh

## It should now start with the warmup cache
```
